---
layout: post
title: "Security+ Part 1"
date: 2023-06-04 
categories: ["Certification", "Security+"]
tags: 
---

# Security+ 
> First step in certification 

## My Study Approach
Every Morning I would study for 30 minutes or more for the exam through the CompTIA Security+ Study Guide and go through any mistake i have made. I will be putting more efforts during the weekend with the below resouces:
- [Allison](https://alison.com)
- Youtube
- [ExamCompass](https://www.examcompass.com/comptia/security-plus-certification/free-security-plus-practice-tests)
- Security+ practice exam book

## Mistakes 
After studying the first 8 chapters of security+ the below are my notes/mistakes I have done in the review questions. 
1. **Threat Assessment** is an example of managerial control
2. **Configuring Intrusion Detection** is Technical control
3. National state actor has **More resources** than Insider threat actor
4. **Powershell** is used for fileless malware package
5. **RAT** uses port 80 / 443
6. **Crypto malware** is an example of Ransomeware
7. detecting Rootkit can be done by **mounting** the suspect system on a **trusted system**
8. **MD5SUM** is used for cracking MD5 hashes
9. **lowest simpliest** of an attack is high risk
10. **nmap** can be used in recon phase
11. **Rules of engagment** contains technical details 
12. **Footprinting** is used to discover the operating system 
13. Active changes happen in **development enviroment**
14. **Agile** customer satisfaction early
15. **Elasticity** expanding when demand spike
16. **Tokenization** replaces personal ID
17. **not all crypto key** should be kept a secret
18. **not all cloud services** can set account policy
19. **SMS** is least secure
20. **lower Cross Over Error Rate** = lower FRR & lower FAR
