---
layout: post
title: "Raspberry Pi 4"
date: 2023-07-16 
categories: ["Hands-on", "Raspberry"]
tags: "Raspberry"
---
# Dusting off my Raspberry Pi 4

During my break I felt motivated to mess around with my Raspberry Pi 4 again and work on my network attacks skills but my network adaptor is only limited to monitoring mode and has issues. I decided to order me a new network adaptor **"AWUS036NHA"** to mess around with!

I am planning in future on working on wifi attacks such as setting up an evil twin and having an active portal to steal credentials. To start with working on that i need to make sure my Raspberry is dusted and ready for it. 


## 1. Updating Kali 
I started my Raspberry and it had A LOT of issues, i couldnt even update or upgrade due to the time and hour being wrong. I started simple fixing the date and then i ran the below command to make sure everything is updated, upgraded, and cleaned up ready for me to start working on it. 

```bash
apt-get update && apt-get dist-upgrade -Vy && apt-get autoremove -y && apt-get autoclean &&	apt-get clean && reboot
```

After an hour finally the Raspberry is fully ready for me to mess around with but i still have to install the required driver for the network adaptor and to check if my SSH configuration is still setup for me to access the device from my vmware. 

## 2. Installing the RTL8188FU driver 
For installing the network adaptor driver, for any errors follow the steps found [here](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1122095/install-alfa-awus036nha-driver-on-ubuntu-18-04-lts)

```bash
git clone https://github.com/kelebek333/rtl8188fu.git
cd rtl8188fu
make 
sudo make install
```

After installing the driver I still had the same issue but it turns out that using the old usb cable wont do. I used the new USB cable that came with the network adaptor. 

## 3. SSH configuration
For the SSH, all I had to do is make sure that my SSH service is on and everytime I turn the Raspberry device on it will automatically start. The below command does it:
```bash
systemctl start ssh
```

## 4. Connecting to the device
I scanned my network to find the ip address of my Raspberry with port 22 open and i found it 

```bash
nmap -sV  -p 22 192.168.1.0-255
```

ssh using the below command 

```bash 
ssh kali@ipaddress
```

